All right guys, welcome back.
We are continuing on what we talked about last lecture,
which is prepping your account to sell paid shoutouts
or paid promotions for companies, businesses, and services.
Now, this lecture, what we're going to talk about is something
that's really essential if you don't want to waste all
of your time, and that's building a price list beforehand
and then building a set of instructions or a
process flow for how you can easily get people to pay
you, and then you post whatever it is they have.
Now, first up, the price list.
Now, I don't know if you've seen this.
If you've been following the follow along lectures, you'll see
this a lot actually, because we were doing paid promotions
at the very beginning of the account
and everybody's got a price list.
They'll just send you this copy and pasted text that says
"This is how much it costs for a two-hour promotion,
this is for a four, this is for a six, this is for an eight, etc."
Now, one thing I have to tell you is that
price lists are really trial and error.
Anytime I get a price list from a big account, I kind
of assume that this has been iterated on a lot,
but I wouldn't be surprised if this is the first time
they've ever even used this price list before, because
the industry is constantly changing, and so it's very
hard to tell what the baseline for charging should be.
Now, what have we learned from buying
paid promotions with Innovation Station?
Well, if you're an account under 50,000 followers,
pricing is typically going to be anywhere from like
$10 all the way up to $50. I think under $10 it's not
even worth doing and you should just wait till you
are larger to start selling.
Now, for accounts that are, say, under 2 million, I've paid as low
as $40 and as high as, I think the most I've ever paid was $200.
Now, the biggest two modifiers here are going to be
how long they share your post, how long they leave
it up for, and whether or not it includes a story
post or a temporary change to their bio link.
So let's look at some of the price lists that
we've gotten from accounts in the past.
So let's see.
OK, so this guy has an account that's 5.9 million
people, then he's got one that's 4.8, 1.6, 1.3.
Now, I only used his science account,
because the other ones just weren't relevant.
So he was charging $75 for a one-hour post, $120 for
three, six hours, $160, up to 24 hours, which was $240.
Now, that does not include any stories, just because
mainly I'm guessing he doesn't think they're worth it.
Here's another one.
They also have three accounts,
so one was @notcommonfacts, 7.7,
@horoscoptic, 5.9, and then another one for 3.3. I think
I only used their @notcommonfacts, so 7.7 million followers.
Now, they only have three tiers, there's $150 for three
hours, $210 for six hours, or $320 for 12 hours, and
then down here we have story posts, $70 per
100,000 views, and that's actually uncommon.
Usually, they'll just give you a flat fee for a story post,
because story posts automatically post for 24 hours,
there's no real negotiation about how long it stays up.
Now, this person went after 100k views, and
I don't know how effective that is, to be honest.
But generally speaking, we can see some patterns.
We usually see time breakdown something like this,
it's usually like a price for one hour, a price for two,
a price for four, a price for oftentimes six, and then 12,
and then 24, and then oftentimes you'll have a price
for a permanent post.
Now, why exactly is it important to
cater to every single tier possible?
And the reason is just because you want to cast as
wide a net as possible, you want to be able to cater to
as many people's budgets as you can.
A small account with a small budget can still get
promoted on your account but they're just going to pick
something that's a lower tier, like a one-hour or two-hour.
Also, big accounts often buy shoutouts,
and for them it's not worth it to do one hour or two hours,
so they would want something that's longer, like 24.
The other reason why this tier system works really
well is because it's a really easy way to upsell people,
and I've noticed this just from a psychological
standpoint when I buy paid shoutouts.
What they do is they'll price it so
that you have your hour tiers,
and typically the first one is the baseline, and the second
one is double that, the third one is double that,
and the fourth one is double that, with the exception
of sometimes people do a 4, 6, and 12, or 4, 6, 8, 12.
That's kind of the only area where
they kind of break that rule.
So what they often do is, let's say
you're charging $20 for one hour,
they don't then charge $40 for two hours, because
there's no reason why you as a buyer would do a larger
transaction to go for that two hour
one, it's not really that tempting.
So typically what you'll see is people will increase
the price for each doubling of time by only 50%.
Some people actually do it even lower than
that, some people do it a little bit higher.
But it's never 100%.
So if you did, let's say, $20 for one hour, you could do $30
for two hours, and then a double of that should be $60,
but with the reduction, it's only a
50% increase, we do $45 for four.
Then you get rounded out by saying like $55 for six,
$80 for 12, $120 for 24. Now, you
can kind of see why that's seductive.
Like, if I wanted to pay $45 for 4 hours, and
it's like, wow, I could only increase my price
by $10 to get another 50% of exposure, that's pretty tempting.
Now, it's entirely up to you if you want to offer
permanent posts. Generally, larger accounts shy away
from this because they take a very hard line
towards curating the posts on their account.
They don't want anything that's foreign to be
permanently on there, but smaller accounts
you see will do this.
There's also no baseline for permanent.
The most common pricing I've seen is you
take a 24-hour post and then double that.
Now, if it's permanent, it's on there forever.
Why is that only double, say, a 24-hour post?
Well, it's just the way that traffic works.
So if I post for a one-hour post, that's actually going
to get a lot of followers, and a two-hour post is
not going to get double the followers. It actually tapers
off pretty quickly, because when I post it, it shows
up in people's feeds, and if it just stays up, then I'm
only catering to people who maybe didn't see the
post, but that came to my account.
So with that being said, if you did a permanent post, the traffic
on day 2 is nowhere even near the traffic you get on day one.
Now, generally speaking, when you go to price your stories,
I like to see them priced just somewhere in the middle,
because stories, not everybody views them,
they're harder to act upon, harder to get people to
actually click through them to a page or to an account,
but they're easy for you to put up.
So I just generally say like, you know, if your
middle tier is $50, then do a story for $50.
Now, the rest of it is up to you entirely.
You can get really, really creative with this.
You can add in, say, "For the length of
your promotion, I'll change my bio link."
You can say "I'll add in a story post and make it like
a really small upsell," it's really up to you, there's
a lot of different configurations you can do, just keep
in mind, as you do this, you're moving farther and
farther away from shore with regards to pricing numbers
that you can obviously see and establish somewhere else,
so you're going to have to start making it up, and
you might have to do a little more trial and error.
You might have to make a pricing sheet, send it to
some people, see how they respond,
and then adjust accordingly.
So once you settle on a scheme, write them out and
then just save them in Evernote or Notes or whatever
it is that you use, so it's very quick and easy for you
to copy and paste it to anyone who's asking about
doing a paid promotion.
Now, keep in mind, there is really no set pricing for
this, because it depends on a lot of things, it depends
on your niche, it depends on your engagement rate, it
depends how long you leave the post up, it depends with
the brand of the account, is it a very high production
quality account or is it just a repost account?
For Innovation Station,
we'll try selling promotions just because, to explore it,
but for me it's only going to be worth it if I can charge
a certain amount of money even for the most
basic posts, because I'm not going to just repost
something they give me, I'm going to make
it in the same style that we do our videos,
and since I'm using contractors to make this, I have
a certain baseline cost for me to make each one, it
ends up being like probably $15, something like that,
because I haven't optimized it yet, I think once it's
optimized it'll be lower, down to like $10 or maybe $8,
so I have to make sure that's at least above that.
The last thing you'll want to do is give
them a set of basic instructions.
I like to ask for three things.
One, what is your caption going to say? Two,
when do you want me to post this? And three, please
give me a link to some videos or direct message me
videos, so that I don't have to spend my entire life just
hunting down the videos that you want actually posted.
Now, with regards to caption, this is entirely up to you.
I don't think there's a standard for this.
I generally think it's a good idea to let them control
the caption, because if it's just the post, then
it's hard to drive traffic to their account, and
we're concerned with repeat business, right?
So we want to make sure they see
an actual tangible benefit from it,
and it's hard to do that without the caption.
But of course, keep in mind, if you let them write
their caption, make sure you do a read over,
so it doesn't sound too out of touch with the way you
do your own captions, and to make sure obviously
that just doesn't sound spammy or low quality.
Now, for getting videos from them, I generally suggest
asking them for the videos, because... Now, if you're
doing one or two promotions, it might be easy for
you to go to their website and grab some videos, or
go to their account and grab some videos,
but it's going to drive you crazy if you're doing a
lot of sales, that's going to become a part time job.
So I generally like to ask them "Give me at least three
clips." Now, the way you could get this from them,
I like to use a tool called Balloon.io,
and so what that is, it's an add-on for Dropbox,
and then I can just give them a link, and that link takes
them to a page where they can just drag and drop a
video file, and then it shows up in my Dropbox.
That's pretty easy and it works with my workflow,
since a lot of the people that are doing the content
on the account work in Dropbox.
But alternatively, and this is actually probably simpler,
to be honest, is they can just send you the video
through Instagram direct message.
It's kind of a pain, because sometimes
it won't send, but it's directly there.
So when you go to post it, it's just, it's
already in Instagram, it's just a matter
of finding that message thread, grabbing it, and posting it.
Now, the last thing was time, and the reason why you
want to have them say when to post the post is because
they have their own audience, and their own audience
has their own time zone, so it's important that you
hit the people that they want to actually get in front of.
It doesn't really make sense to only post during your
time, because, you know, if their account's primarily
people in South Asia and mine's
in the US, that's pretty heavily,
it's a really big difference in terms of time zones.
So if I post in my time zone, I'm not going to
get a lot of the people that they actually want.
And keep in mind, we're going to repeat business, it's
going to drive you crazy if you work with every single person
only one time. We want to make
sure they're happy with the process.
That is just the basics of offering a good service.
OK guys, with that being said, make sure you make a price list,
shop it around to see how people respond,
also you can just message other people
to see how they price their stuff
if you need a baseline, and then come up with some
very basic instructions for getting the videos to
you, figuring out what you're going to do about the caption,
and then figuring out when exactly you want to post it.
If you do those two things, this will
make this process a whole lot smoother, and
you won't go crazy trying to sell shoutouts and promotions.
All right, guys.
See you in the next lecture.